So welcome back, guys.
Now, in this module, we will going to learn the purpose and how to write a make file.
So what exactly Makefile is?
Makefile is nothing, but it is a program building tool which runs on your next Lennix and their equivalent
Flavour's Makefile AIDS in simplifying building the software program that made dependent on various
other libraries.
So let us try to understand this point with the help of an example.
So, for example, suppose you have a software program and that software program is big enough that
it consists of 200 Sourcefire and 20 hydrofoils.
Now, out of these 200 source file and 20 header files, you need to create certain dishes from the
above raw material.
So let us call this as the raw material, because you need to cook up this raw material to prepare a
certain set of dishes.
Now, what are the dishes here?
Dishes are nothing but the final product that you want to create out of these source files.
So suppose that out of these 200 source file, you need to create 10 static libraries, five shared
libraries and three executable.
Right.
And note that in the production code, the size of this software program can as big as it may have thousands
of source files and hundreds of flights.
So the question is that how will you going to build such a huge software program which consists of so
many source file and other files, so the answer is that you need to make use of make file.
If you do not make use of makefile in building such huge software programs, then of course you will
go mad if you compile each source file one by one.
In fact, it is infeasible and not possible thing to do.
So make file contains all the commands required to bring all the dishes you need and what other dishes
here, the final and product that you want to build.
So these are dishes.
So here are dishes is an informal term that we are using to refer to the final product that you want
to build.
I have seen that 99 percent of the students never make use of make files in their academic tenure to
build and compile their C or C++ programs.
And that is really something very sad.
In fact, unless you start working for a company in the industry, then only I have seen that students
encounter for the first time with the Makefile.
So it is for this reason, I have decided to include one more deal on Makefile itself so that you develop
the habit of building your software programs using make files.
You will see that making use of make files in building your software program is a one time effort and
it is very convenient that pays off when a software program grows in size.
Now, let us go through the functions of a make file, that is what is the purpose of make.
So the very first and the basic function of the file is the compilation.
So this involves the compilation of source file to create the corresponding object files.
Then linking is also done using make files.
Make file is also used to create required libraries, which could be static or dynamic.
And of course, Makefile is used to create the required executables.
Makefile is also used for the installation of libraries and executables on your system.
And of course Makefile is used to update the dependencies.
So you can see diagrammatically here that Makefile is used to create libraries, executables, installation,
right.
And of course, the input to the Makefile is the raw material here.
Raw material means the source file and her files.
And of course, you may be provided with pre compiled libraries and object files from third party libraries.
So those pre compiled libraries can also be created to file in order to create your final products.
So in order to learn how to write a make file, we will do a short assignment.
So as an exercise, we will be developing a very small software package using a make file.